Hello guys, welcome to the Keto Pro
podcast with myself Richard Smith. Today
I am joined with Professor Seaf Freed.
Professor Seafed is a professor of
biology, genetics and biochemistry at
Boston College and in my opinion one of
if the uh if not the world leading
expert in uh metabolic cancer treatment
and prevention or even cancer treatment
and prevention in general. Uh Professor
Seafood, welcome on board.
>> Oh, thank you Richard. It's nice to be
here today.
>> Fantastic. And thank you. This is uh an
incredible treat for me. Um yeah, to get
you on has has made my day. I know we
had to postpone this because you're such
a busy man. So yeah, this is this is a
super exciting one for me. So let's get
straight into it. Um cancer. So through
my journey as a nutritionist, um I've
worked previously with with many people
who suffer many conditions. And what I
have found is that within the the
nutritional medical community, there are
experts in various fields, i.e. heart
professionals, people who work on the
brain, kidney, so on and so forth. Now,
what what I feel that I've learned over
the years is that many of these things,
if not all of them, come back to diet
and lifestyle. Yet, we are told that
they are genetic. And this is a common
theme with the clients that I work with.
It's in my genes. It runs in my family.
um cancer being one of them. You know,
we believe that this is a genetic
condition. Um could you explain your
position on whether you believe that
this is actually genetic or something
else?
>> Well, uh it's not what I it's not what I
believe. It it's what the scientific
data uh tell us. Um you know, we don't
believe unless we see data. So, we have
to look at the data. So, you're
absolutely correct. the world uh top
cancer uh research centers, hospitals,
um government funding agencies
uh say that cancer is a genetic disease.
If if you go on to the National Cancer
Institute of the United States uh and
ask what is cancer, it clearly says
cancer is a genetic disease uh caused by
mutations
um in in DNA of the nucleus. And this
this um is what we refer to as the
somatic mutation theory of cancer which
has been the dogma uh the the silent
assumption uh that has driven research
and treatments uh worldwide. Um but but
you know it it's people accept it uh
because of confirmation bias,
assimilation bias. It's not uh if you if
anyone with a rational capability of
looking at information uh would were to
look carefully at the evidence uh
supporting the the the somatic mutation
theory. Uh you would have to scratch
your head and say how is anybody uh
capable of believing this? Uh let me
give you some some factual examples. Um
there are papers published uh showing
that there are some cancers where they
can't find any mutations. um there are
no mutations uh you know and if the
sematic if ca if if they say can cancer
is due to sematic mutations in the DNA
uh of the nucleus of some of these
tumors and you can't find any uh
mutations yet the tumor is raging out of
control um then there's something
something's not right with the theory
and then well after they realize that
there's thousands and thousands of
mutations in all different cells of
cancers calling breast call they're all
different from each e every every cell
within a person's tumor if we're if to
be analyzed completely would find
different kinds of mutations there's in
each of the cells there's no two cells
that would have the exact exact pattern
of mutations that another cell would
have um but then they they break it down
if you go to the national cancer
institute top uh cancer journals they
say well not all mutations are leading
to disregulated cell growth which is the
definition of cancer cell division out
of control disregulated to cell growth.
Um we call them now so only certain
kinds of cancers cu caused by certain
kinds of mutations and these are called
driver mutations. So we have passenger
mutations that seem to be mutated but
they don't code for anything but then we
have these important driver mutations uh
which are the ones that are supposed to
be uh responsible for the disregulated
cell growth. However, new experiments
are coming out all the time uh
remarkably showing that like a young guy
like you uh uh many people if you take
your tissue and look you find dozens and
thousands of driver mutations in tissue
that never forms uh cancer. Well, this
is completely against the the theory
because you're supposed to have tumors
in cells that have these driver
mutations and normal people don't. And I
think the nail in the coffin for the
whole uh gene theory of cancer was the
mitochondrial nuclear transfer
experiments where you can take the
nucleus of a tumor cell full of
mutations and drop it into a a healthy
cytoplasm and you don't get disregulated
growth. Whereas if you take the normal
nucleus and put it into a tumor
cytoplasm, you get disregulated cell
growth. This clearly says it's the
mitochondria in the cell, not the the
mutations in the nucleus. Now, as I
said, you if you have if you are capable
of looking at numbers and data and and
you are somewhat scientifically
literate, then this information should
be clear to even people with minimal
levels of education. Yet, how is it
possible that the leading scientists
throughout the world are locked into
this cancer as a genetic disease when
the data clearly tell us it's absolutely
can't be. So uh this is the great
conundrum that we are facing worldwide
because the therapies that we're
developing to treat cancer patients in
the clinic is based on an incorrect
theory. And as the result of that in the
United States we have 1,700 people a day
dying from cancer which comes to about
70 people per hour. So uh uh clearly
what whatever we're doing is not working
in dropping the death rate. And that's
due to the fact that cancer is a is not
a genetic disease. It's a mitochondrial
metabolic disease driven by glucose and
glutamine and having an inability to
burn fatty acids or ketones. So we now
know how to manage it without toxicity.
But unfortunately what I just told you I
is completely unknown uh uh completely
incomprehensible. I I I can't figure it
out. So what whatever is happening, we
just have to continue to wade through
dead people before somebody wakes up and
realizes what's going on.
>> Yeah. Which is super frustrating. It's
um as a nutritionist um I work with uh
with doctors and medical professionals
within the NHS, people who are open to
the idea that nutrition has a big impact
on these things. Um but they are few and
far between. But these people are out
there. So I present regularly um to to
these communities um and what baffles me
is something so simple um seems to be
lost in translation and it's almost what
they are taught from the from the outset
is is incorrect and as you say it's this
a case of uh being taught the wrong
thing and everyone else is telling you
that these things are genetic and this
is what you're taught in medical school
and then to try to think outside the box
um almost seems impossible but for me a
lay person.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's also very hard
because the the m your government well
the UK government, the United States
government, the German governments, they
award large grants uh research grants to
scientists uh to hunt for genes and look
at genetic problems. Uh the
pharmaceutical companies spend billions
and billions of dollars on these
therapies to to to work. So the so the
issue is is that you know why should I
consider uh cancer as a mitochondrial
metabolic disease when I get so much
money uh to say that it's a genetic
disease. If I say it's a metabolic
disease I might lose my grants and
therefore I'm going to go hungry. So uh
uh it's better as one of as it says it's
difficult to convince Upton Sinclair
said it's difficult to convince someone
of something when their salary depends
on them not being convinced.
If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/ keto for cancer,
the new community by our research
analyst Johnny Rockermeer. Within this
new community platform, you can connect
with other patients and learn from their
experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement.
Starting with the general scientific
concepts by Dr. Thomas Ciphford, we will
show you how to start the ketogenic
diet, including which foods to choose
and which to avoid. Additionally, we
prepared a list of doctors specialized
in metabolic therapy as well as details
about glutamine inhibition and
hyperbaric oxygen protocols. So, take a
look around at school.com/ keto for
cancer.
So, you have a lot of power structure
that has nothing to do with the science
uh supporting this incorrect uh theory
on cancer. And unfortunately, we're
paying a terrible, terrible price for
this. But it's worldwide which is really
remarkable. It's amazing how all the
major industrial uh uh countries,
cities, uh cancer research foundations
are all walking to the same uh uh wrong
drum. Uh it's just a it's like I don't
know what is like the pipe piper of of
uh of the brain. And you talk to people
and oh it can't be. They tell me what
you just said can't. I said why don't
you look at the data? You tell me what's
what number is wrong with these with
these nobody looks at the data what I
just the data that I just described to
you and as a matter of fact when you
read the top papers in science and
nature and cell they still struggle
trying to figure out uh why these genet
gene mutations uh that are supposed to
cause cancer are not causing cancer and
they never consider maybe their theory
is wrong. They never stop and think
maybe the theory under which we're
studying this disease is incorrect.
Well, God forbid because that'll change
the whole system and people are going to
have to come to realize this is a very
different kind of a disorder than what
it was made out to be.
>> Yeah, for sure. Look, a few things
there. I mean, you mentioned there um
death rates in the US. Did you say
around 1,700 per day? Um which is an
awful lot.
>> It comes to about 6 almost 612,000 per
year and that's those numbers come from
the American Cancer Society. So what
what I do is I simply divide it by 365
and you get almost 1,700 people a day.
And then if you divide that by 24 hours
in a day, it comes out to about 70
people per hour
>> in this United States. Now of course in
China it's even far greater because they
have a much larger population. and
getting to that. The UK currently is
around a little bit less around 460 each
day, but our population proa um is is
lower. So if we were to patter those
figures up to the US population, quick
calcul, it'd come out around 2,300.
Um now I I wonder why this is, you know,
it's I part of me thinks that is it
because um and and we'll get on to to
maybe treatments and preventions. Uh but
a big part of this I believe and I'm
sure you will attest to this also is uh
the reduction of of carbohydrates
particularly glucose um and introducing
and implementing a ketogenic based
lifestyle um which seems to predominate
within the US over many of the locations
in the world. I mean this is quite new
to the UK uh the ketogenic way of
living, the ketogenic lifestyle. um it's
new and it's feared as a fad, but I get
the impression that it does predominate
and it's a lot further uh down its
journey than than in the UK. So, do you
think that that could be a contributor
in in regards to why the US pratta is is
slightly less currently at those
figures?
>> Yeah, I I don't I can't I can't speak to
to that. Um but I know what you're
saying about about this. So you know ba
basically
uh when you say diet and lifestyle and
this kind of thing uh you have to
realize that as a species we're about
1.5 million uh years uh we as a species
have existed and most of that time was
in this paleolithic uh form of existence
hundreds of thousands of years our
physiology is that of a paleolithic man.
uh we we would uh use tremendous amounts
of energy to get food, whether we were
hunting for it or gathering it or
whatever. Uh but it's not easy to chase
down a large animal and kill it. Um and
then chop it up and eat it. Um even if
you're firing it, uh you know, there's
there's no carbo if any carbohydrates uh
in this in this kind of beast uh that we
would kill. Uh we would eat the marrow.
That was another another a nice story
came out of Israel a few months ago
looking at how these large animals went
extinct like willy mammoths and some of
these other kinds of things. Um our our
spec our early ancestors uh would kill
big buffaloos and and all kinds of
things but we would kill the strongest
members of the herd. Uh not the weak and
the old uh the young and the old we
would go for the strongest members. This
is a nice stud study by Israel by the
group um and that because the the the
the amount of nutrition that you get in
the marrow from the from a member of the
top me uh strongest members of the herd
give you more energy. So we we knew uh
that you got to kill the be you got to
kill the top dog and get the and get the
get the energy from him. And what that
what happened then is is that the herd
was then left with um with very young
and old which then became her pred uh
bait for predators because the the
strong guys that would protect the herd
were killed and eaten by us and now the
rest of the herd. So you we they
attributed man to the uh uh underlying
extinctions of large groups of animals
that existed on the planet. So we were
we we were very smart at that at that
time. But we had no carbohydrates in our
diet. Um primitive man did not die from
cancer uh any more than u membershu uh
in Aboriginal tribes that have been
evaluated uh before western diet
lifestyle came in like es uh initer
and others. Cancer did not exist in
folks that lived according to
traditional ways. Extremely rare. So
that was the paleolithic man uh who who
was always in nutritional ketosis.
Not that they wanted to be, but they had
to be. They had no choice. There was
nothing. There wasn't doughnut shops and
delicatessins on every corner. So So you
lived in this nutritional state of
ketosis. So when you talk about
ketogenic diets, all you're doing is
bringing man back to a state of
paleolithic existence. Uh now listen, a
paleolithic man died predominantly from
infections and injuries because because
we didn't have antibiotics and we didn't
have orthopedic surgeons to to fix
broken bones and hips. So we would die
earlier because we were not able to
correct these injuries. What's killing
us today are all these chronic diseases
that are coming about as the result of
our diets and lifestyle. Don't forget,
we evolved over tens of thousands of
years to want sweet. We want sweet. We
would go after honey. We would go after
anything that was sweet. So, we are
geared to want sweet. The problem is now
we have an abundance of it everywhere
and we're paying a health price in a
different way. So the obesity epidemic,
people who are are obese are the
ancestors of our are the descendants of
our ancestors that knew how to store
massive amounts of energy quickly. Now
we're we have so much energy we get
obesity, chronic diseases, cancer,
dementia, diabetes, cardiovascular
disease. It's all related to diet. A
shift because as I told many people on
these podcasts, we are still paleolithic
man in a modern environment. uh our our
technology, food science and technology
has evolved so much faster than our
biology. So that puts us at risk now for
all different diseases that our
ancestors never had. So it's it's very
easy if you understand evolutionary
biology. All of the problems that we
have with respect to healthcare is very
explainable.
>> Yeah, I agree. And and I think you can
probably go even further back to uh
osteopolycus. Um I mean we can see for
as long back through nitrogen isotope
testing up to 3.4 million years that you
know we've consumed uh predominantly
animal proteins over yes we would have
consumed things like berries and fruit
uh potentially honey and things but
these would have been seasonal. So as a
percentage of the amount of carbohydrate
we would have consumed in our lifetime
or throughout the year it would have
been pretty small. So as you say, you
know, ketosis is our natural metabolic
state. It's the metabolic state we're
born in. It's the metabolic state that
we've evolved in almost our entire
existence and the introduction of these
toxic compounds. Um, as you say, I
believe is fueling, you know, cancer and
insulin resistance and everything else
because they are all they are all
connected. um you know what what I'd
like to get into quickly and it's it's
funny actually you've mentioned I made
some notes uh when you mentioned about
uh so I've been looking on uh frontiers
and some of your papers that you've
produced and cancer as a mitochondrial
metabolic disease being one of them uh
and on there you know you've mentioned
uh about the frog uh and the uh the
mouse studies um where we look at the uh
medaloma uh blastoma experiments sorry
with the investigators found that the
nuclei of the mice um and you've just
mentioned this in regards to the
melanoma cells could produce normal
appearing you know blasto sites um
that's got to be proof positive surely
that you know if if it was genetic then
this would this would predominate
through these experiments um I find that
incredibly interesting can we get into
that a little bit can we go a little bit
>> and you know when those experiments were
presented to some of the top uh genetic
cancer geneticists
uh in our country. Um and we're asked
how do you how do you uh how do you
inter how do you recognize these nuclear
mitochondrial transfer experiments is as
being absolutely against the somatic
mutation theory. Uh uh one one gentleman
said uh well if if if that's right uh
then everything that we're doing in the
cancer field almost everything is wrong
and therefore those experiments cannot
be right.
>> So you tell me what's wrong with that
picture.
>> Yeah. But that seems to predominate
across all of um the medical and health
profession. Um it's they almost try to
build something to fit their narrative.
You know, we look at we're told that red
meat causes cancer and you know our fat
clogs our arteries and so on and so
forth. Yet we know this to be untrue.
You know, you and I work in the spaces
that we we read these studies and we
present these studies on a daily basis.
But when you present to someone within
the medical community, they seemed there
seems to be a block, a mental block, uh
almost tunnel vision if you like,
whereas they can only see what's put
right in front of them, which baffles me
>> because as a scientist, I mean, you're
you should work towards disproving your
theory until all of these other things
are taken out of the equation and then
you're left with with the truth. So, you
should be trying to disprove your theory
rather than trying to defend it. Um, and
that's what I try to do as a
nutritionist. So, I've I've studied all
different types of nutrition, um, you
know, from from veganism all the way up
to to carnivore. Uh, and I I I'm I'm
carnivore, so I live a carnivore based
lifestyle. Um, been ketogenic for over a
decade. And it's been uh an incremental
change for me. These slow incremental
gravitational changes towards uh
reducing carbohydrate. Initially, um, I
became low carb. Then I gravitated into
what I'd call a dirty keto lifestyle,
then a clean keto lifestyle. And you
learn to understand how damaging some of
these compounds are. Um, some of them
from the foods themselves, some of them
through the toxic chemicals that have
been added to these compounds uh, in
their manufacturing process, which we
can get into as well, if you like. Um,
but it's it's led me down this path of
becoming strict ketogenic. And now for
the last four to 5 years um I live a
carnivore based lifestyle. Um but you
know you you mentioned there in regards
to paleolithic man and how their uh
lifespan was was a lot smaller. And this
is an argument that that I get thrown to
me quite often is well they didn't live
that long back in them days. But if we
look at the average lifespan past the
age of infancy then these ages are 70 to
80 years of age without central heating
without medication without antibiotics.
Um for me that's proof positive that an
ancestral appropriate lifestyle living a
ketogenic lifestyle can allow us not
just to survive um but thrive. But it's
we're still we still live in an age
where everything is genetic and it's
>> well it's just you know it's it's the um
power to be the power structure that
you're dealing with. Uh think about it
for a minute. You're dealing with your
federal government in in your case it's
the NHS I guess. Uh and in our case it's
the National Institutes of Health. um
where where where they all clearly state
that that this is a genetic disease. Um
cancer is according to them 100
different or more diseases very
complicated all genetically different.
Uh so you you you have that and and the
power of the hospital systems, the
pharmaceutical systems. It's the power
structure that is resistant uh to this
like you like you just said when you
transitioned yourself from um to this
low carbohydrate ketogenogenic
lifestyle. It it didn't happen
overnight. You you transitioned yourself
over time to realize what worked best
for you. um you know uh it it will take
a time for the uh industries the cancer
industries to to readjust their
thinking. Uh it can't happen overnight.
You can't cause such a catastrophic
change in an already welloiled system uh
working uh according to uh the training
that all of these folks get in medical
school and in textbooks and in college
and then all of a sudden make this
revelation that oh we've got to change
everything. Um you have to do it
gradually just like you did. you have to
the system the the the systems must
change and and we we don't want to throw
out all of the toxic things that we're
using to manage cancer. We just have to
reduce them to some extent uh make them
a little bit less frequent and a little
bit less in dosage uh while your body is
in a state of nutritional ketosis and
then you'll find that these things work
even better. uh many of these toxic
chemicals that are that are poisonous
actually become less poisonous and more
therapeutic when you use them in lower
dosage and less frequently. So so we
don't have to throw out everything. We
just have to know how to use what we
have better in light of the effect that
that uh transitioning the person like
what we what we recommend in our
writings is that a person who who comes
into the clinic often times they have
obesity, they have type 2 diabetes,
hypertension, high blood pressure. you
have to slowly move that person from a
state of unhealth to health. Uh
gradually by restricting carbohydrates,
more exercise and then when they get
into this better zone uh then we can uh
go a we use drugs to go after the
glutamine uh the glutamine problem
because the tumor cells can't live
without glucose and glutamine and we
have to do it strategically. So again,
it's it's transitioning like you did.
You you you we transition the cancer
patients slowly depending on the
individual, their age, their gender, uh
their their cultural background. I mean,
all of these things play an important
role in moving a person into a state of
nutritional ketosis. And what we we did
here at Boston College, we developed the
glucose ketone index calculator, uh,
which you can then it's a quantitative
measure to know whether or not you're
really in nutritional ketosis. So people
say, "Oh, I I eat this. I eat that." How
do you know you're Well, I don't know.
I'm just guessing. Well, with the with
the glucose meter, with the keto mojo
meter, you can quantitatively know
whether or not you're in nutritional
ketosis. And when the patients are in
that zone of 2.0 zero or below where the
ratio of glucose to ketones are almost
unity, then the drugs can hammer these
tumors out of existence with low levels
of these drugs. Uh different sequence.
Unbelievable. Uh people get more and
more healthy the longer they're being
treated for their cancer, not just the
opposite what you see. It's
unbelievable.
>> Yeah. Which is incredible. I I think
I've I've heard you mention previously
that um the uh the the co-
use of diet alongside um chemotherapy
treatments in regards of being ketogenic
uh allows us to reduce the amount of
chemotherapy treatment but therefore
reducing the amount of damage but it
becomes and I may just be making this up
but I'm sure did you say previously it's
three to four times more effective
living
>> it can be from our from what we're
seeing on cancer patients where they can
do this. They're they're really getting
um you know I was talking to my
colleagues in Turkey and and they were
reducing the dosages because there's a
certain in order to maintain standard of
care there's a range of doses of
chemotherapy that you that you are
permitted to give patients. There's the
highest dose and then there's the lowest
dose. But there's a range and most most
clinics give the highest dose. Uh but
but as we were putting patients into
nutritional ketosis, we they recognized
that half or one-third the dose was
having just if if not more therapeutic
benefit without the collateral toxicity
because the tumors are all under already
under intense metabolic stress. So a
little bit of chemical now just just
throws them over the edge of survival.
So you don't need so and you don't harm
the rest of the body significantly when
you're doing this. a perfect example of
how you modify uh and improve what we
already have. But you've got to get the
patient first into that nutrition state
of nutritional ketosis. And therefore, a
lot of the burden in success falls on
the shoulders of the patient themselves.
So this is uh this is a team effort. The
patient must know that their efforts to
bring their uh glucose down and ketones
up into this nutritional state is going
to be important for their eventual uh
management of this condition and living
a much longer life with a higher quality
of life and a greater overall survival.
But a lot of it's falling on the
shoulders of the patient. No longer is
the patient going to be a passive
bystander uh in this process.
>> Yeah, 100%. And I think, you know, what
you've just said plays into the, you
know, the fact of what we know in
regards to being ketogenic increases the
the the mitochondria. It it not only
increases, but it makes it more
efficient. Um, which plays further into,
you know, your argument that the this is
a mitochondrial issue. Um, you know,
from your teachings previously, you
know, what I say to people is that
cancer is caused by damage to the
mitochondria um causing mitochondrial
dysfunction. And I I think they they're
probably your exact words. Um correct me
if I'm wrong, but the cells lose their
ability for oxidative phosphorilation.
So therefore, they can't produce energy
through electron transport chain and
then it pushes glucose into a process of
fermentation um which fuels the cancer.
I mean is that is that right so far?
>> Well, that that's uh predominantly what
we what we know from the work of Otto
Warberg, the the great German scientist
from the from the 20th century. He
clearly know knew what caused cancer.
What what the problem with Warberg uh is
he didn't know how to capitalize and and
use the knowledge that he had to develop
a therapy which we did. Um however we we
we there was a lot of misunderstanding
by Warberg and others at that time about
um how much energy you get from oxygen
that you breathe and how much energy you
might get from glycolysis in the
cytoplasm. Um so they were doing quant
Warberg was driven by the quant he was
in a um a cell of of scientists that
were rigidly quantitative in everything
they did which was very important.
However, when you become too
quantitative,
uh you lose sometimes uh other
explanations like for example uh Otto
Warberg said that one mole of oxygen
consumed was equivalent to seven moles
of ATP produced through oxidative
phosphorilation and and he got that
those those numbers from Hans Krebs who
worked in Otto Warberg's lab and of
course the Kreb cycle and these guys are
all Nobel Prize recipients. So, uh
that's that's true for normal normal
tissue. Uh one mole of oxygen produces
about seven moles of ATP. That's not
true for the cancer cell. The cancer
cell takes in oxygen but produces
radical reactive oxygen species which
are carcinogenic and mutagenic. So the
mutations in the nucleus are coming from
the damage to the oxidative
phosphorilation. But but uh the
mitochondria in cancer cells can produce
some small amount of energy through
oxidative phosphorilation but it's
insufficient
by itself. Uh and what happens is the
cell gradually upregulates fermentation
mech taking in more fermentable fuels
and a protra so it doesn't happen
overnight like Warberg said if you
damage oxos too acutely the cell dies
and you'll never get a tumor from it.
You have to have cells that are capable
of transitioning over time from oxfos to
what we call uh energy without oxygen
which is fermentation and the the waste
product lactic acid is an indicator of
energy through lactic acid fermentation
and that goes way up in cancer cells.
However, what Warberg and the field
still does not Warberg never knew and
the new field the current field still
has difficulty understanding. We uh
working with Shannonopoulos Christo
Shannonopoulos from Seml Weiss
University have identified a second
fermentation pathway in in cancer cells
uh which is glutamine fermentation. This
is really interesting because the
mitochondria itself incapable of
producing sufficient energy through
oxidative phosphorilation can produce
energy in the mitochondria by fermenting
glutamine in the glutamolysis pathway.
This is incredible. So all the field
thought that the that the tumor
mitochondria were respiring glutamine
but we have shown it's not being
respired. It's being fermented and the
waste product is suinic acid. So the
waste product of cytoplasmic glycolysis,
aerobic glycolysis is lactic acid and
the waste product of mitochondrial
substrate level phosphorilation is
suinic acid. And these cancer cells are
throwing these two molecules out clearly
telling us I am fermenting I am
fermenting glucose and glutamine. If you
want to kill me, you must take away
these fermentable fuels. I am telling
you that. Why are you too stupid to not
know that? the cell is telling us
exactly what they're doing and we're not
looking at that. We said that's the way
you kill them. And then you transition
them over to fatty acids and ketones.
They can't use fatty acids and ketone
bodies because you need a good ox system
to do that and they store giant amounts
of lipids in the cytoplasm uh because
they can't burn them. So they to protect
the cell from damage they store so all
major cancers are storing fatty acids in
the cytoplasm a marker to tell us that
they can't respire effectively. These
cells have been telling us in no
uncertain terms for decades what they're
doing to stay alive and we have ignored
the very signals that the cells are
telling us. But I see what they're
telling me and I know how to kill them
but nobody else wants to know about it.
>> Yeah, that seems to be very much the
case. So look in in simple terms,
Professor Seaf Freed, um are we saying
that cancer cells there's there's two
fuels. So currently we've got glucose as
a fuel and glutamine as another fuel. Um
so let let's look at glucose first of
all. Glucose comes from carbohydrate. We
can get it from a number of sources of
of foods that we consume. But would you
would you say that glucose is the number
one fuel source? Let's remove glutamine
currently but glucose being the number
one fuel source which we predominate
within our diet. Um, so is it
>> well well don't forget even when we even
when you're in a paleolithic ketogenic
diet, you still have glucose.
>> Yes.
>> Don't forget the glucose produces
through the 10step Mden Myhoff Barnes
pathway, pyuvate, a threecarbon molecule
that goes into the mitochondria and is
completely oxidized and the waste
products of that are CO2 and water. The
problem is is if your mitochondria
aren't effective or you're in a hypoxic
environment that's fermented to lactic
acid. So you can't the might so it's
being diverted down a a bypass pathway
uh to get energy uh and but you have to
have a tremendous amount of fuel to make
up the lost energy from oxidative
phosphorilation. That's why large
amounts of glucose are needed for cancer
growth. Not only for the energy but also
for producing metabolites so you can
synthesize new DNA, RNA and protein and
lipids. So you have to have metabolite
synthesis. a machine. This is a a
growing a growing machine uh this cancer
cell. So you need two things. You need
the energy and you need fuel for for
growth and the the two the carbon source
from glucose uh gives us the the uh uh
uh we can build lipids and we can build
protein and we can build a part of the
nucleic acid but we need nitrogen.
Where's the nitrogen coming from? It's
coming from glutamine. It has two
nitrogens in it. uh and and that can
produce DNA and RNA, help the with the
proteins and give us energy through
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation. So clearly these two
fuels do everything that the cell needs
to survive. And we have gone through and
interrogated these cancer cells to see
what else can they use in replace of
glucose and glutamine. We can't find it.
They can use a little bit of this and a
little bit of that. The problem is
there's not much of this or that in the
micro environment. In order to drive the
beast, you need sufficient logistical
supply of the fuels to drive all this
and the metabolites. And glucose and
glutamine are abundant in the cancer
micro environment. So, it's going to
have plenty of energy if you don't take
away that energy. It's extremely
difficult to kill and and and radiation
and chemo, all that acidification around
the tumors coming from the fermentation
of these two fuels blocking these
therapies to try to kill the cancer.
Everybody's going nuts. Oh, the cancer
cells are so resistant. They're so
tough. Yeah. Because you're feeding the
two fuels that they need to grow. Take
the fuels away. You see how weak they
become.
>> Yeah. And a few things there. I mean,
this there's so much information with
this that I think we could probably
speak about this for hours, but you
mentioned pyuvate through glycolysis,
which is something that we don't create
through beta oxidation or ketone
production. Um, when it comes to to
glucose, yes, it's it's in it's in our
diet. It's it's found in many foods that
we consume. Um structurally if we look
at every cell the or the average mameial
cell I think uh polysaccharides make up
about 2% of the cell 70% is is water and
then around 18% is protein 5% is lipid.
Um so to think that if we were to
consume a predominant carbohydrate as
our main contributor for uh for
nutrition and energy then this goes
against what our bodies are made of. Um,
so from from a structural perspective of
every cell within the body, you know,
we're told that proteins and fats make
up every cell. Yes, we consume glucose
through our evolutionary period, but
this would have been in in small
amounts. Uh, a little bit found in in
organ meats. Uh, very little found in in
muscle. Uh, and again, any glucose would
have been seasonal. Uh, and would have
come in the form of things like
fructose. The interesting thing with
fructose is that that also fermentss or
has the ability to ferment, doesn't it?
Um,
>> well, fructose uh is is is converted
back into glucose in the body, too. So,
um, but it it goes through a couple of
other pathways. Uh, it it's hazardous in
in in large amounts. U you know, it's a
little bit in fruits. You can get
fructose sugar from fruits. But uh when
you when you pump high fructose into all
these sweet Coca-Cas and Pepsi Colas and
you know diet Pepsi or not even diet all
these other kinds of sugars a lot of it
has high fructose corn syrup in it. Uh
this is not good you know but but the
issue here is is um we we we have to
focus in in my world I I have to focus
on killing cancer cells without toxicity
uh to the rest of the body. you you have
to know how to wield the power of
nutrition uh to keep the rest of the
body healthy, but you also need to know
how to how to strategically uh target
and restrict the two fuels driving the
disregulated cell growth. So you you
have to know that we have to be very
careful in targeting glutamine because
our gut requires glutamine. We want a
healthy microbiome. We want a healthy
gut. We don't want to we don't want to
destroy that. uh and and we have to be
very cautious about that because
glutamine is a is a fuel for our healthy
gut. Glutamine is also a fuel for our
immune system. So if we're too
aggressive in targeting glutamine, we
can harm our immune system which is
needed to prevent infections and to pick
up the dead uh cancer cells, the
corpses. So that's why we developed the
press pulse therapeutic strategy where
we can choke off glucose significantly
with diet uh and exercise. Exercise
unbelievable. So diet and exercise can
really choke off the glucose. But then
we have to come in with with uh uh drugs
to strategically uh challenge the the
glutamine pathway. A and that's what's
where we are right now. Dosage timing
and scheduling to maximize the how we're
going to achieve this resolution of
cancer without harming the body. And you
need to know how to play one group of
cells off of another in your own body.
So when you do exercise, muscle stores
glycogen because a muscle does not share
glucose. So if we have glucose in our
butt and we're exercising, the muscle
takes it and does not share it. And if
whatever little you have is going to go
to your brain, the tumor is going to be
low on the totem pole to get that
glucose when when our normal systems are
going to be using it. So they get
marginalized. So uh yeah, man, it's easy
to kill these damn tumor cells if you
know what to do and you do can do it
without toxicity. Problem is nobody
knows what I'm talking about.
>> But but I mean the way that you describe
it there seems you make it sound
incredibly simple. um stop consuming the
compounds that are feeding the cancer
cells. It just seems super
straightforward.
>> Wait, we can't we can't target Glutamine
is in meat, right? So, but the levels
are so low. The amount that the tumor
needs uh eating meat, a carnivore diet,
yes, there's glutamine in there, but
glutamine is already super high in our
body anyway. So, eating some meat is not
going to make it any worse. So, so uh so
you you need a drug to take care of the
glutamine issue. Go and eat the meat.
It's not going to harm you. In fact,
it's good for you. But that but you got
to you just got to make sure all me we
met when we do these cancer patients. We
look at incredible numbers of of blood
metabolites. We look at triglycerides.
We look at HDL, LDL, we look at all the
vitamins or we look for power. We look
for everything. And when we're bringing
them into the new state, we have to
maintain what we call systemic metabolic
homeostasis when you're moving. And
besides, it's not easy. Uh you take a
person who's addicted to to to sugar uh
and and it's like pulling them off uh
you know, cocaine or or or nicotine. So
I don't want to make this out to say,
"Oh, this guy knows what he look how
simple." Yeah, you try it and see what
happens. You'll find out it's not that
simple. But it's all willpower and it's
also a tr slowly transitioning and
understanding what you're doing and why
you're doing what you're doing.
>> Yeah, for sure. For sure. You know, you
you mentioned there uh you know,
glutamine is it's essential and we need
it. It's found in the in the foods that
we eat, but it predominates in the body.
So, h how can we combat the the the
glutamine? Um you've mentioned
previously about the dons, you know, is
that something that that you implement?
Um, is that still Yeah,
>> you know, it's a it's it's an
unbelievable uh tragedy that we don't
have that as the number one drug on the
cancer armamentarium. You know, you have
Dr. Rubeson, cisplatin, you get all
these horrible toxic, brutal drugs that
are readily available for a high price.
But the most powerful drug is sitting
there doing nothing and it should be
available to everybody. Uh, it's it's uh
six deoxyor leucine. It looks very
similar to glutamine. It it looks like
glutamine itself, but but it it binds it
it gums up the glutamine metabolism
system, but if you use it in too high of
a concentration for too long, you can
get sick from it. So that's what
happened when it was used against little
kids with gluca. They were doing well,
but but it was causing a little bit more
toxicity than would have been expected
and it didn't work in some cancers.
Well, they weren't targeting the glucose
at the same time and you got to do the
right way to do this. If you do it the
right way, this becomes a powerful drug.
This Dawn, okay? And we tested others uh
glutamine inhibitors, but so far Don is
the most powerful uh six deoxyor lucine.
Uh but people can't get it. Now, if I
were to have cancer, I have access to
Don. Okay, I can get it. Says not for
human use. Give me a break. I'd use it.
If my life depended on it, you give me a
break. I give it to the goddamn mice all
the time, you know? So, they're fine.
So, so the the issue here is that I know
what to do if I had to do it, but I feel
bad for so many people who don't have
access and then when they go to their
oncologist, they never heard of this
stuff. They never heard of anything that
I just told you is completely never
heard. Never heard of any of this stuff.
No evidence to support what I'm saying.
Yeah. Well, why don't you look at the
science and why don't you look at the
survival of the people who are doing
this. Brad and Maggie Jones are doing
the Cancer Revolution documentary and
they're collecting all these stage four
terminal cancer patients who have done
metabolic therapy and they're still
alive and they seem to be in a pretty
good state of health. Are they cured?
Who knows? Uh but they're alive longer
than they would have been expected to
be. And that's the most important thing.
Management management without toxicity.
How long can you live? We have no clue.
If you die at 98 years old and you had
cancer when you were 35, you obviously
would. But who would know that? So I
look for long term. We're looking for
qualitative management. Qual management
quality and management and that's what
we our that's our level of success.
>> Yeah, I agree. And I think you that word
keyword um is thrown around an awful
lot. I think it's uh I I tend to to feel
that nothing nothing is cured. It's just
in a state of of remission or management
because it's environmental. If you know
being uh an ex type 2 diabetic, if I
were to go back consuming a lots of
these toxic compounds that I used to
consumed with lots of sugar and
vegetable oil, seed oils high in
linoleic acid, um which I believe leads
to more insulin resistance than glucose
does by the way. But it's if I went back
to consuming these compounds, then I
would develop type 2 diabetes again. And
it's I believe, you know, from what you
were saying that it's the same with with
cancer cells. If we restrict the amount
of glucose we consume, then we can
starve cancer cells. If we put the
glucose back in, then we begin to feed
that cancer cell again. So, it's very
much environmental. But I I I would
argue that nothing is is cured per se,
but it is very much an environmental
issue.
>> Yeah, you're right. And and if you can
can in conceive in our minds what it
would have been like if we were to go
back uh one or 200,000 years ago and uh
visit a tribe of our paleolithic
ancestors who would have never had type
2 diabetes uh or any of these chronic
diseases uh because the their diet
nutrition are simply not not linking to
to that. But if you gave those guys a a
big box of jellyfilled donuts, uh they
would kill themselves for it. And then
you would tell them, you know, this
might give you type two diabetes while
they're chowing down on the doughnut.
You think they would care? I don't think
they would care at all.
That's modern man.
But but yeah, it is. And it you've hit
the nail on the head because many of the
clients that I work with come to me
because they're sick. and I made the
change to my diet because I was unwell.
Had I not felt unwell or developed the
conditions that I developed, then maybe
I would have never have looked outside
the box uh and begin my journey down
this rabbit hole. Um and now I feel that
I'm so deep down the rabbit hole that
I'm I've come out the other end. Um and
I'm a big believer in in everything that
you've just said in regards to diet and
nutrition. I I think this is, you know,
this this is the basis for everything. I
think drugs are fantastic. Uh I'm not
against medication, but I believe
medication should be used in a situation
um to help fight a problem, but we need
to look at the root cause. So, it's all
well and good consuming medication if we
have inflammation for example, like an
anti anti-inflammatory, but what's
causing that inflammation? What's
causing that insulin resistance? What's
causing the cancer? um you know you've
mentioned there um so we've we've gone
on to the to the the premise that this
isn't genetic so it's not that we're
born with cancer per se um and we we
know that it's mitochondrial
dysfunction. So
>> yeah well let me say something uh people
know that there are uh inherited factors
um that can pre predispose you to have a
greater risk of getting cancer. They are
called secondary risk factors not
primary risk factors. We've looked at
all of the uh genetic syndromes that
lead to a susceptibility to cancer.
Leafro many lynch syndromes you know
retinol blasto all of these up and down
and none of them are 100% penetrant and
everyone that does does develop cancer
is a fermenttor. The the cells are
fermenting. So um what these inherited
risk factors do is interrupt oxidative
phosphorilation leading to secondary
protracted fermentation and disregulated
cell growth. It's the mitochondria that
regulates the growth of the cell. So
when that organel becomes corrupted, the
cell falls back on its default state
which is proliferation driven by a
fermentation metabolism. So we went
through and looked at all causes of
cancer uh ankcogenic viruses uh
carcinogens
uh age inflammation intermittent hypoxia
uh we went through them all and every
one of these risk factors whether it's a
an inherited factor or an acquired
factor or an exposed factor every one of
them causes chronic damage to oxidative
phosphorilation coupled to compensatory
fermentation. Only cells that can do
that are able to become cancer. So we
rarely if ever find cancer in cardiac
meioytes or neurons of the brain. Um
mainly because if you interrupt their
oxidative phosphorilation they die and
can never become a tumor cell. So we and
red blood cells of course they they they
have no nucleus or mitochondria. Uh so
we know it's clear the body is telling
us why why certain cells can get cancer
and why certain cells can't get cancer
regardless of how how abusive you are.
So so and we know because it's the
two-step process. chronic disruption of
oxidative phosphorilation coupled to a
protracted elevation of substrate level
phosphorilation where the where the
ankco genes turn on they're they are
facilitators of bringing in the fuels
into the cell they open up the
floodgates so they can get high amounts
of glucose and glutamine and when you
and and when you put new mitochondria in
there the ankco genes turn off and
everything comes back to to normal.
That's unbelievable. So we are we have
this thing all pegged out. We have we
know what to do to prevent cancer. We
know what to do to manage cancer. The
problem is everybody thinks it's a
genetic disease. So everything I've just
said is meaningless.
>> Yeah. Which which is incredibly
frustrating. I mean it's okay. So we
carry we carry some of these genes which
may leave us predispositioned. Um so
this this effect on the mitochondria um
does that influence things at an
epigenetic level? Um
>> yeah because yeah the mitochondria uh
are the most powerful epigenetic system
in the cell. So so when when they are
suffering uh they immediately release
signals from the mitochondria uh that go
right into the nucleus and the nucleus
then turns on ankco genes which are
facilitators of the fermentation
metabolism. So that's an epigenetic
powerful system. The cell is sensing I'm
failing in my energy. Now what you have
to realize is that where most of the
energy interestingly enough in a cell
comes from the membrane pumps. Uh these
are sodium potassium pumps. They pump
out uh they we have an electrical charge
across all of our membranes uh in in our
body. Uh we we we pump out sodium and we
bring in potassium and that leads to an
electrical charge and that's all driven
by this pump pump action. It's a I call
it a dumbass pump, but the pumps require
it's 40 to 60% of the energy in a cell
is going for pumps, right? So, so when
the energy fails, the the uh you know,
sodium rushes in, potassium rushes out
and you reach equilibrium, that's called
death. You got to you got to have the
energy to those pumps. So, if the if and
you can either get the energy from
oxidative phosphorilation or you can get
it from substrate level phosphorilation,
which is fermentation. and and and and
the bottom line is fermentation is so
less efficient than substrate than
oxidative phosphorilation. So you have
to bring in otherwise the cell's going
to die. Yes. And it grows out of
control. Why? Because the organel
controlling the differentiated state the
mitochondria is corrupted. It can no
longer do that. So so everything is
explainable. Uh the cells fall back on a
proliferation because all of our cells
in the atmosphere
were all fermenttors and they grew
without regulation. because there was no
oxygen and they were fermenting and
there the cancer cell is using those
airlic pathways to stay alive driven by
a fermentation metabolism. So so clearly
we can put all the p all the together
and people say oh it has to be genetic
because oh my grandpa had it my uncle my
you're living in a common environment
sim abusing yourself using the same
thing too. So people we can explain
almost almost everything associated with
this phenomenon called cancer when we
understand it from evolutionary biology
systems physiology a and uh nutritional
biochemistry. So we can put it all
together.
>> Yeah. Which I mean I can attest
completely to what you've just said in
regards to um to what people say and
what they believe in regards it runs in
my family. But as you say you tend to
eat what your parents eat, what your
brothers and sisters eat. um those
compounds that we consume can be
incredibly detrimental. Um you know,
you'll know from speaking with with the
likes of Dr. Chaffy and things that, you
know, certain plants contain toxins, but
plants today are not the plants that
they used to be. Also, they've been
heavily genetically modified, sprayed
with toxic chemicals like glyphosate. um
glyco glyphosate will block the shikmate
pathway that will lead to a fermentation
process in the lower gut also um and
leads to increased triglycerides and so
on and so forth. But it's these toxic
compounds they they're found in
absolutely everything. They're not the
foods.
>> No,
>> not foods. They're man-made chemicals.
These compounds that have been
>> Well, that's the whole thing about
highly processed foods, carbohydrates.
the global uh trans uh dissemination of
foods uh across the planet uh high
highly processed carbs and and chemicals
and all the all these kinds of things uh
do impact uh negatively on our
physiology uh o over time and the and a
new Oxford dictionary term the last few
years was called locoor. Uh a locor is
somebody who eats uh only vegetables and
meat grown locally all natural. So none
of this, but you know how hard it is.
We're we're we're sitting in traffic.
We're we're working all day long. We're
under stress and now we got to go out in
the backyard and try to, you know, get a
tomato off the thing and and slaughter
some chicken in our backyard. You know,
we don't have time for this kind of
stuff. We throw something in the
microwave. It's convenient. It's easy.
And next thing you know, we're we're
obese and demented and with and then you
say, "What happened?" Well, the problem
is uh uh we have to recognize what what
what these things are and try to adjust
to them as best we can because we know
that chronic stress, loneliness, poor
sleep, bad diet, no exercise, uh this is
the modern western way. This is the way
most people uh are exposed throughout
the world. And as soon as that
western way comes into some tribe, all
of a sudden you get an explosion of all
these chronic diseases. I I visited the
medical school at Thunder Bay, Canada,
which services the Inowits in the
northern part of Canada, and they used
to be the healthiest people on the
planet about 150 years ago. I mean, they
were killing whales and seals and this
kind of thing. Uh very little greenery
in their diet, you know, it was very
seasonal and this kind of stuff, mostly
meat and fat and this kind. But now
these poor folks, 50% of them have type
2 diabetes, dementia, cardiovascular
disease. They're the sickest people on
the planet all because they started
eating highly processed carbs and no
exercise and the government takes care
of them. You know, it's like wow, what
happened? You can just clearly see
within two generations you go from super
healthy to super sick and it's all
related to the diet lifestyle. So, uh so
we know it, but who wants to change diet
lifestyle? So, metabolic therapy can be
used to both prevent cancer as as as as
well as manage cancer. It's very
different from standards of care when
you think about it. Uh, okay, we can we
can do we we know the obesity, diabetes
epidemic is is is linked to our diet and
lifestyle puts us at risk for for
cancer. So, we can use ketogenic
metabolic therapy to put you into a new
metabolic state, keeping your
mitochondria healthy. It's very
difficult to get cancer if your
mitochondria remain healthy. Uh, but
nobody cares because we have a diet, we
have an obesity epidemic. Obviously,
these people never heard of this stuff.
But but if they do get cancer then we
can use a very similar kind of treatment
to manage manage these folks. This is
strikingly different than what we do
today. When you have cancer you have
radiation toxic poisons and surgical
mutilations and all kinds of stuff uh as
a as a form of treatment. You you don't
usually do that to somebody before they
they have cancer. You don't see a line
of people lining up in front of Dana
Farber MD Anderson. Can you nuke and
poison me so I don't get cancer? Right.
No. No. If I have cancer, you can nuke
and poison me. before I get this is the
crazy stuff. This is nuts. So, so
clearly metabolic therapy can both
prevent cancer as well as treat cancer.
But you do a few extra things in the
treatment process. But it's all diet,
lifestyle, and knowing how your body uh
uh uses energy. And once you know that,
then you should be able to make choices.
And that's up to you. You know, I'm not
saying any government should restrict
carbohydrates or drinks or whatever, but
people if once they're aware of it, they
can make conscious choices and then and
then determine where they would like to
go in their life.
>> Yeah, I I agree. But I I think you're
right. It's also incredibly difficult.
Um sugar bro block blocks the prefrontal
cortex. It blocks our body's ability to
to make sensible decisions. Um and and
you're right, sugar is highly addictive.
It's one of the most addictive drugs,
you know, on the planet. Um, so it's I
think you know what there's there's a
divide within like the nutritional
community currently in regards to some
people believe that fruits and veg are
incredibly beneficial and then on the
flip side apologies on the flip side
there's the ketogenic carnivore
community. Um, but in between you've got
the the standard western diet if you
like full of processed foods. Now we all
know the processed foods are
detrimental. Um, so even at an
incredibly basic level, we should be
trying to make a change and trying not
to consume these processed foods. We
know that they're not good for us yet.
We still consume them avidly because
because you've hit the nail on the head.
They're convenient. But the the most
convenient food for me, at least that
exists on the planet that is also one of
the most nutrient-dense foods is a piece
of steak, a piece of beef. I mean, I
chuck I chuck that into a pan within 2
minutes. It's the original fast food,
>> you know. It's e eggs, eggs, and beef.
>> Well, eggs and beef are far more
expensive than uh than highly processed
Twinkies and all these other kinds of
things that you get. But, but I agree
with you 100%. I mean, you throw in a
bunch of hamburger meat, crack a couple
of eggs in there, throw in some Sharasa
sauce, make it a little spicy. Uh, I
mean, but I'll tell you, uh, when my
students, uh, do this for a week or two,
no carbs, your body, you start to, your
brain starts to say, "Hey, where where's
the sugar high? Where where where you're
taking away the drug?" People say, "Oh,
I'm not addicted to glucose." Oh, yeah.
Go water only fast for three or four
days. See what happens.
>> You You start looking at your pet in a
different way. You know,
>> you know,
it's really addictive. It is totally
addictive.
>> It is 100%. And it it goes deeper
because when we look at things like
serotonin and dopamine, these are things
that we are hardwired to chase as you
mentioned earlier um and and sugar
blocks these pathways and many of the
compounds that we consume like the
phytic acids, the lectins and and the
antiutrients they block the absorption
the process of our aromatic amino acids
and prevent
>> when you eat fat when you eat fat uh it
it triggers the hormone chictoinine
which is an appetite suppressant
actually. So, so uh but the mice when we
they don't have that appetite
suppressant as much as humans have. So,
this is a kind of an interesting thing.
We're always we always have to be
careful in our pre-clinical studies
because the mouse has a basil metabolic
rate seven times that of a human. So,
everything happens like in a flash. Like
most humans have a heart rate of about
70 beats per minute or something like
this. The mouse heart rate is 650 beats
per minute. Wow.
>> Our head would blow off our body if our
heart went that fast, you know. So, so
we have to be careful when we do the
translational studies from from our
preclinical systems to humans. And we
find humans do so much better than these
poor mice on these on these uh
transitions. But we need to use the
pre-clinical system to know what will be
effective in in in in the human system
because we don't want to treat anybody
with something that hasn't been vetted
first in a pre-clinical system and then
we can we can modify and perfect it for
the human as we go forward. So this is
the strategy that our group has taken
over the years. We work everything out
in pre-clinical models of the worst
kinds of cancers in the natural host
setting. None of these genetically
engineered mice or cancers. Everything
that we work with is all natural. And
then we get these systems where we're
seeing tremendous therapeutic benefit.
And then our clinician friends start to
apply this in the clinic.
>> Are you passionate about the
groundbreaking and heroic research of
Dr. Thomas Cipher on metabolic therapy
and cancer? So are we. That's why we've
created something special for you in
collaboration with Johnny Rockermeer, a
German book publisher and translator.
Introducing our collection of
meticulously crafted books that distill
the essence of Dr. Safe Reed's work.
Dive into the science and discoveries.
These summary books are your gateway to
understanding the intricate world of
metabolic ketogenic therapy in a clear,
concise, and engaging way. Whether
you're new to the subject or a seasoned
enthusiast, our books offer insights
that can change your life. Ready to
explore this transformative knowledge?
Visit our website at www.cancer as a
metabolic disease.com to get your copy.
You can buy the ebook there directly and
the paperbook via the provided links.
Here's the best part. A portion of every
purchase goes directly to support Dr.
Thomas Safereed's groundbreaking
research. That's why the direct ebook
purchase is the best option to donate as
much as possible. You can see all of the
donations Mr. Rocker has already made at
www. ketoforcancer.net.
That's right. When you buy our books,
you're not just investing in your own
knowledge, you're also contributing to
the future of cancer research. Help us
make a difference. Together, we can
drive change and save lives.
>> And yes, diet and nutrition are
absolutely essential. If you're going to
do ketogenic diets or any kind of a
diet, pescatarian, Mediterranean, it has
to be nutritionally balanced and it has
to bring the patient into a glucose
ketone index of at least 2.0 or below.
Then you're in a metabolic state for
having your cancer cells maximally
targeted and killed uh without toxicity.
So again, but the stress is you having
to get into a GKI of 2.0 below, which
for some people may not be that easy.
>> Yeah. Which Yeah. Yeah, I mean a a few
points there and I'm conscious of the
time so I won't keep you too much longer
but I mean you mentioned collicyine in
there. Um fats will also increase BDNF
which helps us uh with inhibi inhibitory
control. Um the sun can help us with
melanocyt stimulating hormone through
UVA through the eyes. Um and and natural
fats uh and and amino acids can help uh
block leptin. So it's um it seems to be
the perfect food to prevent these
>> and exercise. Make sure that exercise is
in there. Walk a couple three miles a
day. You know, make sure you're you're
moving, moving, moving, moving. Okay.
With what you just said, uh, brings your
whole body into a better state of
health, which isn't bad. I Some of these
guys go out and they feel, I got to run
a mar I got to run a marathon. I got to
run 20 miles. The next thing you know,
their legs are blown out, their hips are
bad. Walking it just as long as do
something bike riding. I it it could be
you don't have to kill yourself. These
guys run out there. got to do a lift 100
pound so much weights and I got to do
this. Next thing you know, they're in
the hospital with something wrong. And
then they can't exercise, they get fat,
and the next thing you know, they're
back in the problem. So everything has
to be done logically. And and the older
you get, you can't go out and do all
this crazy stuff, you know? I work out
in a gym with all these kids, guys and
girls that are in 18 to 22 years old,
they look unbelievably healthy, and I'm
there like, whoa, you know, and then I'm
going to try to lift as much weights and
next thing you know, I hear something
tear, you know?
when I was their age, I could do a hell
of a lot more than I can do now at my
age. So, you just have to moderate
things. Do is moderation as best you
can. And you have to recognize as you
get older, you have to moderate more and
more. You can't do what you did when you
were 25 years old. So, uh, but again,
you can certainly keep your GKI down and
you can certainly look on packages to
see whether this is going to be bad or
good. But, you know, I'm not going to
say I never eat jelly donuts or a pizza
or or or this kind of stuff. Of course I
do, but I don't do it every day.
>> Exactly. I do it rarely. I do it
occasionally, but not every day.
>> Yeah. Very Yeah, I agree completely.
It's, you know, you you can't out train
a bad diet. Um, being an ex-professional
bodybuilder, I've I've I can attest to
everything that you've just said in
regards to injury. I now compete in
endurance sports. So, I've done a
complete 180 and now I do um doathlons
and training for triathlons. So, and
again, I don't believe that that is
healthy because it's an extremity. But
what I the way that I structure my
training is that I split it um instead
of doing 20 miles, for example, it'll be
two bouts of 10 done in the same day. Or
if I'm doing 16, it'll be two bouts or
whatever. So at that time um and and
pressure that uh that activation and
expression of cortisol with the HP
access is is far lower and it it's it's
much easier to to sustain uh and it
doesn't lead to to that overexpression
and blocking that negative feedback
loop. Um but there are ways that you can
do it. So I'm trying to train for
endurance sports in in in short uh
interval trainings in what I call split
training i.e. training twice a day but a
lot smaller. And I find that works a lot
better for combating uh injury. But
nutrition, nutrition is number one. I
think you know if you you can train all
you want and if your nutrition is bad,
yes, you can almost you can almost keep
you know keep the piper at bay for so
long but eventually you need to pay the
piper.
>> Um you know that um that deposit needs
to be made back to the bank in the end.
Uh and that's why I believe that you
know we are what we eat and we need to
eat what makes us. And for me, you know,
looking at the what makes the weight of
each cell and our bones and so on and so
forth, it's protons.
>> What you're basically doing is you're
trying to delay entropy, which is the
second law of thermodynamics. We all die
from disorder and that mitochondria
maintain the order in our body. And as
long as you can keep that organel as
healthy as possible for as long as
possible, you have a ch a chance to live
longer with a higher quality of life.
And that's ultimately and also reduce
the risk for chronic diseases which
would be obesity, type two, diabetes,
dementia and cancer. So all of these
things can be wrapped up and that's why
we say the glucose ketone index
calculator is a powerful tool to ward
off uh chronic diseases. Uh but you have
a tool now. Before that we had no tool
and now we have free labor monitors and
the that you can put onto your arm. We
don't have it yet for ketones but
eventually it will be there. So you'll
be on a real time basis knowing of
whether or not you're in nutritional
ketosis at all times and you can eat
certain things and watch the the
parameters change. It's unbelievable.
This is going to be wonderful. You know,
people say, "Oh my god, let's see. I
really want that jelly donut. Let me see
what it does to my GKI." BOOM.
>> EXACTLY.
>> And then all it makes is, "Oh, I guess
I'll only have a little bit more." No
more.
>> Yeah. It's interesting.
>> At least it gives you a quantitative
measure. Right now it's all guesswork.
But once people realize that the GKI can
allow them to stay in these zones and
know that their bodies are getting very
healthy, at least they have some
quantitative measure from a drop of
blood on the tip of the finger is what
it is. You can buy the meter from
Amazon. So all of this is is is there uh
it's just that people don't just don't
have access to it yet or know about it
once they know about it. And our work
here is all supported by philanthropy
and private foundations. We had a a
really large nice grant from the British
UK uh childhood cancer. We developed an
incredible uh therapy for high-grade
gloma in children, a non-toxic because
the number one killer of kids cancer is
high-grade glomomas. It's a terrible
horrible uh disease. But we can we we've
actually found that if we target glucose
and glutamine simultaneously while
transitioning the body into nutritional
ketosis, uh we we're able to keep uh
these high-grade glomomas at bay. uh
keep them down, make them indolent. So
these kids could live so much longer.
It's going to be a blockbuster. The
problem is they don't know about it. And
when you tell them about it, it can't be
true. It's too good to believe. It's
like, well, why don't you look at the
data and then you make up come to your
own own decisions about this. But the
future is coming and the future is
metabolic therapy. Brace yourself. If
you're not part of it, get out of the
way because it's coming.
>> I agree completely. And do you know ju
just a point on that I think you you
present this information to someone you
tell someone to look at this information
the issue is they will go and show the
information to their doctor which their
doctor usually says that this is a load
of rubbish and people believe their
doctor you know and and and in there
lies the problems it's breaking this
this cycle I think and um I don't think
it's going to happen from the top down I
think it's got to come from from the
bottom up from from from us
>> well that's why your shows uh these
YouTube things that I do and we're
starting our own YouTube vid video, our
own channel called Talking Cancer with
Professor Seaff Freed and then people
hit me with all kinds of questions,
students and faculties and then we can
address them uh logically and we bring
them to the literature that supports
what we're finding because we're not
just making this stuff up. I mean we
have scientific evidence, tested
experimental, controlled experiments
looking at what we're doing and let the
people make their own decisions. You're
absolutely right and that and that's why
we publish an open access journal. So
this is not behind a payw wall. People
can get my papers, they can read them
and if they don't understand them, they
can have someone explain some of this
stuff to them and at least they feel p
empowered. Knowledge is power and uh
they'll take charge. Believe me, people
want to live uh and they'll do it.
>> Yeah, I agree. And look, it's, you know,
I I we have uh we have a private
community and I know there are one or
two uh people suffering with with cancer
issues. Uh it would be fantastic and and
I'd be honored if we could get you in
there for a live Q&A at one point or we
can direct them to your channel or both.
Um but you know, I think that would be
absolutely fantastic and I've got
nothing but admiration for for what you
were doing. Um really quickly before
before you go, Dr. food. Um the the
supplementation of things like MCT oils,
uh C8, caprillic acid, and exogenous
ketones. Is there a place for these
within treatment as um I I think so. I I
think so because I know bulletproof
coffee, I've made it myself. It's really
quite good. I use a a couple of
tablespoons of MCT oil. I use real
butter and I use natural cream uh and
maybe a little stevia in there. It's not
It's an artificial sweetener, but it's
supposed to be not so toxic. You shake
it up, it's like a latte for crying out.
You drink the damn thing, you don't feel
hungry for the rest of the day. It's
unbelievable. Uh but but you're
absolutely right. I mean, I I think I
think those things have a place. Um
ketone supplements are ketones are are
kind of bitter. Uh if you take the real
natural stuff like my friend Dom
Dagustinino does, you ought to have him
on on your show. He's the Mr. Nutrition
expert himself. If you could do an
intro, I would massively appreciate it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Dominic, you you'll He broke
the world record in lifting some sort of
squats and lifts at some point. The guy
works out with Dwayne Johnson, you know,
the the movie. He's that he's that kind.
He looks like that guy. So, all these
muscles. Um but but Dom does all all
this stuff, too. And um yeah, so so I I
think that um we just need to stay on
this right path and and we'll be fine.
>> Yeah. Fantastic. I I produce C8 at the
world's highest purity.
>> Oh, C8. Yeah. Well, C8, um, caprillic
acid. It It produces ketones real quick.
Um, so, uh, it's good. You can spike
your your your MCT oil with a little
because generally caprillic acid is not
in MCT oil, but you can spike a little
bit of that. I think it comes from goats
milk. You can get a lot of it from goats
milk actually. Uh, but uh, yeah, very
good, but not too much. because you just
want it all to go to ketone. Every the
liver is is our ketone factory. So liver
makes DBA beta hydroxybutyrate uh which
is the key ketone. You you don't want L
beta hydroxybutyrate. You want DBA
hydroxy that's the one that keeps your
mitochondria healthy and that comes from
caprillic acid and MCT oils. So let your
let your body make it naturally uh by by
by doing these things. I don't know the
exact dosage of caprilllic, but we do
put it into our ketogenic meta metabolic
formulations. So, and we wrote a paper
on this with a a colleague from Turkey
uh on on caprillic acid uh as a source
of ketones naturally. So, um so yeah, we
we've looked into all these things and
we're still developing. This is the
future these kinds of new diets that are
going to give you the maximum bang for
your buck. uh we're always considering
cancer, but but of course dementia is
another big thing that will be prevented
by by this too, you know, so it's going
to have a lot of utility. You got to
keep your neurons and your mitochondria
healthy and all this stuff works
together.
>> Yeah, spot on. I completely agree. I'll
have to send you some. It's my my C8 by
certification is the world's highest
purity at 99.9%.
So I think even bulletproof is is only
like.1% lower, but
>> Yeah.
>> But I'll I'll gladly send you some. So
it um
>> Okay. Yeah, I' I'd Yeah, I'd love that.
It's um
>> The mice will appreciate it.
>> Fantastic. I love the stuff. It's I I'm
ketogenic. Um but I still use it every
day.
>> What's your GKI? What's your GKI?
>> You know, I haven't I've been so long on
my journey. I haven't tested for for a
long time.
>> Richard, Richard, please, you must
count. You must first next time you go
up, you hold up. You see, here's my GKI
today while I'm talking to you.
>> Perfect. I will reach out to our good
buddy who owns um uh Keto Mojo. Um yeah,
so it's um Dorian. Yeah.
>> So I I know Dorian, we've met at at a
few events. Um and I am looking to get
his his meters on board.
>> Well, you'll you'll be able to look at
it in real time because uh you you would
show your GKI chug your your C8 capillic
acid and then see how your ketones are
rising in real time. I mean, what could
be more informative and powerful?
>> I agree. I agree. Yeah. It's And it's
interesting you mentioned that and um
the the lifestyle Libra, which I've used
um and it's interesting to show how much
that when you exercise, how it how the
body creates glucose. So, we know that
glucose is essential.
>> Um
>> well, it's coming some of it comes from
the lactic acid that the muscles are
throwing out. That's the core.
>> So, so yeah. So, you can say, "Oh, why
I'm doing all this exercise? my sugar's
going up. That's because you're burning
at your muscles are throwing the lactic
acid into the bloodstream.
>> And don't forget ariththraittes always
need some low level of glucose. They do
>> uh they have a very low um electrical
chemus 6 mill volts. The the only
function of ariththraite is to move
gases CO2 and oxygen. So they don't need
much of a pump. Whereas the cardiac
meioy is a minus 86 because that's a
cell that's constantly contracting. So
that cell needs a hell of a lot more
energy than the ariththraite does. So
and there's another thing, the delta G
prime ATP hydraysis, which is an
incredibly important bioenergetic
constant that we don't want to go into
now, but it it would take a whole
lecture to talk about that. But but all
of this is all linked together uh for
optimal performance and health.
>> Yeah, call for another day. But yeah,
spot on. I think the ariththraittes need
glucose because they don't have
mitochondria, isn't it? And only
mitochondria can use ketones for energy.
And it's similar with the glutamineergic
neurotransmitters in the brain. But the
as you say that the body creates this
naturally via gluconioenesis.
Um so our requirement for an exogenous
source is zero. But the body makes all
the glucose that we need. And I think
that's where the confusion comes in.
>> And the brain and the muscle are the get
the first dibs on this. So the tumor as
I said is way down on the on the on the
line to get the sugar that's absolutely
needed for that thing to survive.
>> Yeah. So that's why you can easily
transition your body and put pressure on
these tumor cells.
>> Yeah, I agree completely. Fantastic.
Docu just to sum something up that I've
been throwing back and forth in in my
head. Um I mean so if if we look at like
gene expression epigenetics
um are we safe to say that the the loss
of gene expression and we know that the
loss of gene expression occurs around 10
times more frequently through um
transcriptional silencing via
hypermethylation of the CBG islands over
uh mutations. But are we are we saying
that mitochondrial disregulation enables
the tumor cells to produce the building
blocks if you like to to moderate these
epigenetic marks and promote that
initiation of
>> when you say epigenetics when I um it
it's methylation acetilation suenilation
all these kinds of things um it's a it's
a term that people throw out u that is
massively complicated and and uh very
very few really understand uh when we
talk about uh epigenetics being
responsible for something. um you know
we can talk about that but I prefer to
kill all the tumor cells after we kill
all the tumor cells make the body
healthy we can just sit down u and talk
about epigenetics but but the bottom
line is here without the glucose and
glutamine and the inability to burn
ketones and fatty acids uh epigenetic no
I don't care what whatever you're
talking about let's kill those guys uh
and and then we can discuss these more
esoteric kinds of concepts uh but but I
don't prefer to not to waste my time
talking about epigenetics. My job is to
kill these things. Without those fuels,
they can't survive. Epigenetic or no
epigenetic. So microbiome, the same
thing. Let's not, you know, we when you
do metabolic therapy, you got to keep
your microbiome healthy. You go to get
cancer treatment, you blow the hell out
of your microbiome. So what are you
doing? You know, uh the whole thing here
has to be recognized in terms of systems
physiology, and that's what we work on.
So yeah, I mean I I I know the
mitochondria, most powerful epigenetics.
Oh, wow. How does it do that? Yeah, it
it it turns on anko gene. It does. I I
know what it's doing and we just know
how to stop it. So, let's stop it and
kill the cells and and not worry about
those other uh extraneous things.
>> Love it. That is absolutely perfect and
probably the perfect place to to end
today's podcast. Professor Seafood, an
absolute pleasure to have you on. I'd
love to get you on as a guest to delve
deeper maybe next time. But where can
people find you? How can they support
you? Well, uh we have uh two supporting
systems. One is my university, Boston
College. Uh on the biology web page, you
see my picture and there's a donation
for people who would like to donate to
our research. And Travis Kristopherson's
foundation of of um metabolic cancer
therapies. Uh I when I send kits of
information out to the cancer patients,
I I include those. But um the
unfortunately there are people um that
have set up channels saying they're my
channels like the char charity channel
uh is I have nothing to do with that. Uh
it says it's mine it's not mine. Uh
there's books I've written only one book
cancer is a metabolic disease John Wy
Press. You'll see seaf books all over
the I didn't write any of those books.
Uh those books are put out by others uh
that want to make a profit on my name.
They even say I wrote the books and I
didn't write the books. It's
unbelievable. I wrote only one book,
Cancer is a Metabolic Disease, John Wy
Press. Uh, yes, it's $100 or more. Uh,
but these other books are like $15
saying I wrote them. I didn't write
them. So, this is one of the problems.
But I I get my money from those
foundations and philanthropy to help our
to help our research go forward. And
people have been very generous and we
appreciate their help. And I also uh
when they do support us, if you look at
my papers and you look at the
acknowledgement section, you say, "Who
are all these people?" You know,
benevolent funds and this guy and that
guy. Who are these people? Those are the
guys that are supporting our research.
So, if people want to support our
research and get their name in the
acknowledgement section on a nice big
paper that we publish, uh we'll put
their name there and let them know that
this is this guy has helped this paper,
the information in this paper is helped
by that person in the acknowledgements.
Fantastic. And I will be doing that
myself. I'll put all of those links in
the show notes below. But Professor Seaf
Freed, it's been an absolute pleasure.
Again, I can't thank you enough. Um,
thank you so much and with a bit of
luck, we'll get you on again.
>> Yeah. Thank you, Richard, for for
disseminating this information. You you
also play an extremely important role as
well.
>> I appreciate that. Thank you. Okay, bye